The Bird database has several problem records. The decisions below are what was decided in order to move forward transfer from MS Access into Arctos

Dates:
        Unknown dates use 1800-01-01; the current date will be used as the end date
        If there is a prep date, we use the prep date for the end date.
        If a year is provided, we use year-01-01 to year-31-12
        If a year and month are provided we use yyyy-mm-01 to the last day of that month
	
	Identification Date: does not require full date
	Attribute Date: Does not require full date
	Detr. Date: REQUIRED (in case of no date use the first of the month or year)
	VerbatimDate: Literally the date that is written as is, and put No date recorded.
	Begin and End date: Earliest we know it was collected and then the latest
	
	
	Need to establish practice for unknown prep-date if collection date is known and occured after 1800
For MSB Birds-----Use collection date.
	If no prepdate is given but verbatum date designates "before -specific time-" use -specific time- as prep date.
	If prep date is given but no collection date, use 1800 as coll/begin date.
	
	
	
Identified by:
	For JGM- assume she also identified or verified the ID. 
	For others-if not specifically stated, use unknown in Agent ID field, and put preparator in Agent field bellow collector.

Higher Geography 
        Goes down to county and then feature (like a national forest)
        Specific locality is everything under the county/feature
                when noe specific locality is recorded put: No specific locality recorded.
	        Goes from smallest unit to largest unit
        USA = North America, United States
	
	Absolutely no information- 
	chek prep book, try to find specimen, update spreadsheet if locality was overlooked/not recorded to spreadsheet
	If there's nothing in the prep book- look up the bird, find general range, if it's a North American bird for the most part use that. 
	If it's an exotic bird, flag for later, find out if it's from a zoo/educational facility or from an expedition.- use prep numbers and accn numbers.

Parts
        Condition – unchecked
        Disposition – unchecked
        # - 1 (unless noted otherwise)
Sex 
        If no sex listed put not recorded
        
Agents
        JGM = Jackie G. McConachie
        
Errors
        If you make an entry error, page will turn red/pink
        If you correct and save, it turns blue
                Which means you are just editing, so you need to go back to data entry in the Enter Data tab at top of page
        When it works, page stays green, you are still in data entry and can go on to next bird.

No data
        Collector- unknown
        Date- skip it & highlight in red
        Higher geography - highlet red and contact Lindsey
        
Other Notes/ To do's:
Cat#- 271, 253, & 254 have collector “John Arnold” 7 John or J or Jonathan Arnolds in database, none have affiliation with MSB or NMMNH

MSB #	
	Put in Cat # accn #, click "pull" next to relationships. Entere MSB# and look up, check all alvailable fields and submit. Change relationship status to "same individual as"
	
